Let's switch over to our code editor.
And in our dialer module, you'll note
that we have the three functions that
correspond to the three tasks
that I just described you.
And our to do comments they're quite
helpfully explained to us what we need to
be returning.
The reachableKeys function
is called by the app.
You with me?
It's called by the app.
And when we go to run our app,
we're going to need it to be
able to respond correctly.
Because in our app, when you hover
over a key, the app uses the return
from reachableKeys to highlight
the possible places that we can jump.
So it's just a little usability thing.
So reachableKeys is not
just an internal utility,
it's one of our public API
methods used by the app.
We'll look at the app here
in just a moment, okay?
We also want to implement the count Paths,
that's their counter.
And you can probably guess that this
is where we're gonna have some pretty
deep and moderately complex
recursion going on, right?
Because there's a lot of paths and a lot
of backtracking that immediately evokes
the idea that we're probably gonna
want to be doing some recursion.
And then we have our listing out
of our acyclic paths, and again,
we're probably gonna end up
using some recursion to do that.
Lots to tackle, we're gonna do it one
by one so don't feel too intimidated.
Let's just start with the reachableKeys.
The first thing that we want to
do is start with some basic data
structure that's going to
allow us to build off of.
It may not be the data structure
that we finish with, and in fact,
it definitely won't be.
But let's just pick a place to start.
It's putting a stake in the sand and
saying, this is what I can start with.
And I want to just describe what
I think is the most basic and
obvious of possible data structures.
Which is that I want to represent my
dialpad as a two-dimensional array.
I'm gonna leave spaces here for
those empty ones and
put the zero in its location, just so
it's obvious what's going on.
Dialpad is my starting data structure.
And the purpose of reachableKeys is given
any specific input startingDigit, any
one of these, return me an array of all
the possible places that I could move to.
The reachableKeys from that location.
So let's dive in.
I do want to declare a thing
which I'll call nearbyKeys,
this is my array that I'm gonna return.
And I will fill it in with any keys
that I can discover that I'm able to.
If you think about our dial pad,
I'm gonna go back to the slides for
a moment, so
we can get some conceptual backing here.
If you think about our dial pad, the
coordinate system of our dial pad is not
that unlike the coordinate system we
initially started with on our chessboard.
Unlike our chessboard, we don't have any
diagonals going on here, which is nice.
But we do have this sort of horizontal and
vertical movement by coordinates that
was very similar to the horizontal and
vertical movement that we made
on the chessboard initially.
And you'll notice that if I start on 1 and
I go over to 6,
then I increased my row index by 1,
from 0 to 1, and
I increased my column index by 2.
I went from column 0 to column 2.
So we went from the coordinate 0,
0 to the coordinate 1, 2.
And notice that if I
were going from 1 to 8,
it would be going from the coordinate 0,
0 to the coordinate 2, 1,
that increased the row by 2 and
the column by 1.
You might start to see a pattern here.
Similar to how on the diagonals
the coordinates change,
both by one the row and
the column index by one.
Here we have a bit of asymmetry, which is
that in any given move, we always change
one of the two coordinates by two and we
always change the other coordinate by one.
That is, we never do a 1, 1 move,
and we never do a 2, 2 move.
It's always 1, 2, 2, 1, negative 1,
2, negative 1, negative 2, etc.
Everybody follow that?
We're always changing by one
of the coordinates by one and
the other coordinate by two.
So we can just simply exploit that.
Matter of fact,
we can just simply brute force this.
I can start,
if I was given the starting key of one,
I can try all combinations of increasing
my row and or my column index by 1 or
2 respectively, and
check to see if there's a key there.
And if there is,
put it in the array and if not, don't.
So, I can just brute force and
answer to this.
I don't even need something super clever,
we can just simply start with any
index and try all the possible
coordinate connections,
and see if there are keys there.
That's what we're gonna do.
Just plain old brute force.
That makes sense to everyone?
Okay.
So let's do it.
What we're going to do is
start with an outer loop, And
I'm gonna do something some
of you are familiar with,
I'm going to do a destructuring
here of the dialpad.entries.
So this is giving me an iterator that
returns me tuples with the key and
the value in it,
instead of only the value.
You've seen for of loops before,
but here I'm gonna get the key and
the value so
it's gonna be row index and row.
Entries will return this back,
these pairings of the index and
the value, the row index and the row.
And we're just simply destructuring
those into individual variables here so
that I don't have to have
a temporary variable, okay?
Now what I need to do is ask if the
startingDigit is in this particular row,
whatever iteration we're on,
is the startingDigit in this row?
So we could say, is the colIdx,
Because we know row is gonna
be an array of numbers,
if you give me 2 on the first row
that I look at, we definitely will
have 2 there and its index will be 1,
zero based index will be 1.
Everybody follow that?
Did I lose anyone?
If startingDigit is 2, the first
iteration is gonna look at this row and
it's gonna say what is the index
of startingDigit 2, and
it's gonna find it here and
the index will be 1.
So here, we'll have rowIdx 0, colIdx 1.
So how do I know if I
found it in this row?
Well, if colIdx is not equal to -1,
if it's 0 or above,
then we know that we found it.
Otherwise, this is not the row
that we care about, so move on.
So we'll just wrap an if statement here.
We'll say, if colIdx is not equal to -1.
I prefer the not equal to -1 to
the greater than or equal to 0 approach,
other people see it differently,
however you feel stylistically.
Okay, so we know we have found it.
We have the rowIdx and the colIdx of
the thing that we've been asked for.
Everybody follow that?
By the way, we could have done that
with math, but we were gonna need to
loop anyway, so it just made sense
to use a loop to get to this point.
But we could've done it.
Strictly speaking, we could've
done it with some modulus math,
but, We needed a loop anyway.
Okay, so let's look at the column.
I'm sorry.
Let's look at the possible
moves that could happen from
the perspective of changing a row index.
A row index could increase by 1 or
increase by 2.
Or a row index could decrease by 1 or
it could decrease by 2.
Follow that?
That doesn't mean that it's on the board,
but it's just theoretically that's what
could happen to a row index
if we were making a move.
It could either increase by 1, increase
by 2, decrease by 1, or decrease by 2.
I'm gonna write that out.
I'm gonna say, let's do a for loop for
all of those moves,
let's do let rowMove of, and
I'm gonna list those out,
-2, -1, 1, and 2.
So rowMove is like my delta, right?
Same thing with my columns, my columns
can change by plus 1, plus 2, minus 1, or
minus 2.
Let's write the same kind of for
loop there.
All right, First of all, we know that a 1,
1, a 1 negative 1, a 2, 2, a 2 negative 2.
Those are all invalid moves, right?
Those are not night moves.
So of the 16 possible moves
that are happening here,
not all of them are actually
even night moves.
That make sense?
So we're gonna need an if statement to
filter out the things that are not even
valid night moves.
And that can be, we're gonna take
the absolute value of the rowMove
has to be not equal to
the absolute value of the colMove.
That is one of them is got to
have an absolute value of one and
the other one's got to have
an absolute value of two.
I know we're getting
super deeply nested here.
Part of the reason why we're doing this by
the way, just to give you a little hint.
I want this code to
feel super ugly because
it's gonna motivate what
we do in a little bit.
Okay, s we definitely have valid night
moves, but they may not be on the board.
We need to make sure that we're only
looking at moves that are actually within
the geometry of the board.
So we need to have several conditions
be true to make it a valid move.
We need to say that our
current rowIdx plus rowMove
has to be greater than or equal to 0.
In other words,
we have to stay on the board.
And rowIdx plus a rowMove has to be,
how many rows do we have?
We have row index three,
we have four rows, right?
So that has be less than or
equal to 3 on my rowIdx.
And my colIdx plus my colMove has
to be greater than or equal to 0.
And my colIdx plus my colMove
has to be less than or equal to,
there's only three columns so
less than or equal to 2.
And one final little wrinkle,
is that we don't wanna end up
in the bottom left or
bottom right which aren't keys, right?
So the last little part
of this condition is
that the dialpad of rowIdx + rowMove and
colIdx + colMove cannot be undefined.
Because it would be undefined for
the two bottom empty corners,
otherwise there would be a value there.
All the way down, deeply nested in here,
if we get all the way down to this point,
we know for sure we have found a valid
move that we could make from whatever
the startingDigit was,
because we brute forced our way to that.
Does everybody see why
that would guarantee
us one of our possible valid moves?
So now I need to simply
stick these into nearbyKeys.
Whatever it is at that position
is what goes into nearbyKeys.
I'm gonna make this
slightly more readable.
I'm moving on to another line.
I don't know if there's a way to make this
line slightly more readable but, I'll try.
All right,
there is our reachableKeys function.
Everybody with me on that solution?
It's ugly, it's brute force,
but it gets the job done.
And we wanna test that
it gets the job done.
And we have our nights dialer here,
we haven't done any of the counting stuff
yet, but if we hover over the keys,
we should see the nearby keys
being highlighted in blue.
If your implementation of that
reachable keys function did not work,
don't fret because I'm about to delete it,
okay?
I'm just like one of those mean teachers
back in school that makes you do work and
then shows you that it wasn't even for
a grade.